Docs: Standalone-mode LLM enhancements (agentgateway 1.3) (#637)
agentgateway/website: content/docs/standalone/main/llm/providers/multiple-llms.md

The P2C algorithm provides better performance than simple round-robin, random, or least-connections strategies by adapting in real-time to each provider's health and performance characteristics.

## Reusable providers in simplified LLM mode

> For simplified `llm` configuration, you can define named provider defaults once in `llm.providers[]` and reference them from multiple `llm.models[]` entries. This is different from the P2C group above: the reusable provider acts as a preset, not as a load-balancing pool.

Author: ```suggestion
For simplified `llm` configuration, you can define named provider defaults once in `llm.providers[]` and reference them from multiple `llm.models[]` entries. This is different from the previous group example. Here, the reusable provider acts as a preset, not as a load-balancing pool.
```

> For simplified `llm` configuration, you can define named provider defaults once in `llm.providers[]` and reference them from multiple `llm.models[]` entries. This is different from the previous group example. Here, the reusable provider acts as a preset, not as a load-balancing pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For simplified `llm` configuration, you can define named provider defaults once in `llm.providers[]` and reference them from multiple `llm.models[]` entries. This configuration is different from the previous group example. Here, the reusable provider acts as a preset, not as a load-balancing pool.
```

```yaml
llm:
  providers:
  - name: openai-default
    provider: openAI
    params:
      apiKey: "$OPENAI_API_KEY"
  - name: openai-backup
    provider: openAI
    params:
      apiKey: "$OPENAI_BACKUP_API_KEY"

  models:

>   - name: fast

Reviewer: Claude thinks this should be:
```
models:
- name: fast
  provider:
    reference: openai-default
  params:
    model: gpt-4o-mini
```

Author: Did you have claude pull from the latest codebase? On main in the config ref, I don't see reference under provider: https://agentgateway.dev/docs/standalone/main/reference/configuration/schema/#llm.models

will have to verify against the agentgateway codebase, looks like both might be supported:
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/agentgateway/agentgateway/refs/heads/main/schema/config.md

<img width="413" height="265" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f3276a78-98d0-4667-a4d1-7e717fb5d24e" />

Author: updated to use provider.reference

The P2C algorithm provides better performance than simple round-robin, random, or least-connections strategies by adapting in real-time to each provider's health and performance characteristics.

## Reusable providers in simplified LLM mode

For simplified `llm` configuration, you can define named provider defaults once in `llm.providers[]` and reference them from multiple `llm.models[]` entries with `provider.reference`. This is different from the previous group example. Here, the reusable provider acts as a preset, not as a load-balancing pool.

```yaml
llm:
  providers:
  - name: openai-default
    provider: openAI
    params:
      apiKey: "$OPENAI_API_KEY"
  - name: openai-backup
    provider: openAI
    params:
      apiKey: "$OPENAI_BACKUP_API_KEY"

  models:
  - name: fast
    provider:
      reference: openai-default
    params:
      model: gpt-4o-mini
  - name: smart
    provider:
      reference: openai-backup
    params:
      model: gpt-4o
```

> When a model references a named provider with `provider.reference`, provider defaults are reused automatically. Model-level values override referenced provider defaults for that model, so you can keep shared settings in one place and override only the fields that differ.

Reviewer 2: this would be rejected. The only field you can override is `params.model`
